What I want you to try out doing,
is it would be nice if someone
could catch the apples.
I'm gonna choose, and you can choose your
own character, you do whatever you want.
I'm gonna go with Pico
because he's very happy, and
it is the energy that I wanna embody.
So we're gonna have Pico and
we want Pico, if he is, for some reason,
he doesn't have to be
able to jump just yet.
But if he is off the ground,
we want him to fall to the ground might
have to sense something there, right?
We want him walk back and forth and
ideally it'd be great if he could catch an
apple, but if not, don't worry about that.
But we want a Pico that can fall
to the ground on his own, but
will stop falling to the ground
when he's on the ground.
Because these apples will
just keep falling, right, so
we need some way to make that happen.
But I'm gonna let you try that out for
a little bit and
then we'll take a look at it together,
and we'll see how we can from there.
So our mission was,
we have these falling apples, right,
We would like somebody
to catch catches apples,
so we're gonna add a character,
I'm gonna go
grab Pico, I like Pico, I like his energy.
There's a different one that can do for
stories,
we're gonna do the walking one,
Pico is a little big,
I like a half-sized Pico.
So unlike the apples that fall
into oblivion and then go away,
the new ones come, Pico,
we want it to fall to the ground, and
we'll worry about jumping later.
So at this point, we're just practicing
our falling mechanic [COUGH] and
eventually, we wanna have the right and
left so that.
Pico can theoretically run around and grab
these apples, the difference between Pico
and the apple is that Pico has
got to fall to something, right?
Arguably the ground, because otherwise,
if it's just the apple Pico can also join
the vortex of falling apples, but that's
not the mechanic I'm personally going for.
I mean you do you but so
we'll say Pico starting position,
we'll have him kind of start in the air a
little bit, that way he does have to fall.
And so we'll just go to that
position immediately and
let's start with the following mechanism
and then we'll add the motion.
So we'll add a game loop once again
as we are known to do and now,
[COUGH] if we look at the apples,
they're falling, and then they start over.
Really, for Pico, what we wanna do is fall
until you hit the quote-unquote ground.
So we're gonna need to make ground at some
point, but let's get falling working, and
then we'll worry about this concept
of ground, whatever that means.
So we'll go ahead and
Pico's gonna need, like, so for
the apple, we said the velocity was for
that sprite only.
Because otherwise, Pico and the apple's
velocity, as the apple falls faster, so
will Pico and
then Pico will also then iterate by one.
And so it means the two of
them will impact each other,
which is not what we want.
So, as you notice, if I go to the apple,
I have velocity, if I go to Pico, I don't,
because I did that on purpose.
It's for the sprite,
so I'll say, velocity,
again, you can call it speed,
call it whatever you want.
So we'll start out by setting
the velocity all right
I did negative one before to make a point,
but what was zero?
>> [INAUDIBLE] this Sprite.
>> This Sprite only.
>> Okay.
>> So we're doing it for this Sprite only
and then same mechanic as we had before.
We will change y velocity and
then we will change
velocity by negative 1.
One of the things was implemented
a terminal velocity, which is this concept
of physics where things speed up and speed
up and speed up and then that's it, right?
They hit a maximum velocity, so
you could theoretically put just,
it's as simple as putting
an if statement here.
If it's less than negative, whatever you
wanted to be ADA was the terminal velocity
of a cat, is that correct?
Before, so then you can no longer
do it by one if you wanted to
implement terminal velocity in your game.
We don't have a lot of pixels here, so I'm
not gonna worry about that too much for
this mechanic in this game.
And so
that will do the trick where it'll fall,
but clearly we would like to
have some concept of ground.
There's two ways to do this, I will show
you both and you can pick whichever one
you like more, which is we can
make ground part of the stage.
So I can literally just go to backdrops
here and what color should the ground be?
>> Yellow.
>> Obviously, yellow.
>> That's the color grass is.
>> Let's see, make it, like that shade,
like a solid goldenrod color.
Yeah, me too, so we'll do that,
and we want in this case,
no outline, and we're gonna go,
and we're gonna make a.
Look at that, that's a nice background,
right, so we can do it with the backdrop.
And now what we can do with Pico is
basically say, hey, continue this until,
or unless, yeah,
we can do repeat until, that'll work.
That's one option or
we can kind of just check every time.
So there's different tradeoffs to both
which is like the repeat until we'll have
to finish before we go back
into the forever loop.
Which for
this version of the game is fine, but
we'll kind of talk about some
of the different options.
So we have repeat until,
and we can do sensing, and
we'll say until touching color and
then I grab this little picker right here.
Until touching that color, have them drop,
so you ever see those games where first
they kind of drop to the ground and then
they can play, that will be this mechanic.
I don't have right and left or
any controls just yet, but
we'll say start the loop and
repeat it until he's touching yellow,
which means nothing else
will happen in that loop.
We won't do the game loop again until he's
hit the ground, so let's try it out drops.
Now one thing that you might
suddenly notice is he drops and
if we you can see he's a little low there.
>> I kind of like that.
>> So you could choose to
like that mechanic, right?
If you drop him a lot more, he drops,
this one he starts in the right place.
Let's start him, at 180,
and we'll start from there.
So you can see he drops a lot more
based on how far it has he was going,
cuz the more he's dropping, the faster he
is going, which means we overshoot and
then we realize that
we've hit the condition.
Now there's different ways to handle this,
this is simple and easy.
And so in this case, because, there's not
really any jumping or anything like that,
there's no platforms, right?
We could choose to just
paint the background,
like something that
would be okay with that.
So kind of make it look like
a road doesn't really matter
where he lands on the road.
We could know that since
there's only one ground,
we know roughly where that ground is and
where we wanted to stop, right?
So we could say just repeat
until Pico current why and
then he won't drop any further as well,
that'll work.
There's a bunch of options that work for
this game, the problem is that in
a platformer, or something like
that we have multiple grounds.
We're gonna need something better,
but this will work for right now and
we can do other things.
So we can do something like we can
repeat until, and we can update
the velocity every time as long as it's
greater than whatever it ought to be.
And if it is not,
then we can just set it to that, so
we can say something
like repeat until colo,
touching yellow we're gonna
use like an all right?
If the next step is gonna be too far,
then we can just put him
where he's supposed to be.
So, we could say,
if the current y position
Current y position that's in motion So
we need to add stuff,
so the current position plus where it's
about to go next is too far, we can just
put them where it's supposed to be which
looks like about, I like it right there.
That seems right, that's 198,
so if y position plus
The, Next velocity.
So if that's negative 1,
whatever plus another negative is
gonna be less than this, what was it?
Negative 198,
you could do the logic the other way,
put them where I'm supposed to go
And we could just say,
set y, that was negative 44,
sorry, I was looking at the x.
Negative 44, set y to negative 44,
otherwise do the thing we had previously.
So fall,
unless you're gonna fall too far, and
then just end up where
you're supposed to go.
And now he falls where
he is supposed to go.
All right, that'll work,
it doesn't really matter for this game,
there's different ways to do it.
This will work for a very simple
thing where there's only one floor,
like I said before,
in something like a platformer.
This won't work because like we've hard
coded in this negative 44 as the ground
but there could be many grounds.
It could be platforms,
there could be moving floating islands,
it could be a whole bunch of stuff, right?
But you're not gonna really
need much more than that,
in this case, all right,
so that will work.
We kind of choose what we wanna do
in that situation, now we talked
a little bit before about walking,
and so we know how to do that right?
And that was your kind of mission,
we can say if,
If the sensing here is.
We there this is this key is pressed,
if the right arrow is pressed,
point in the direction.
And again, you could choose to have
moonwalk, you do whatever you want, again,
it depends on the game.
You set a point that direction,
and let us say move ten steps, and
then we'll duplicate that, nope,
I wanna duplicate all of that.
And we'll change it to the if,
left arrow is pressed point
direction negative 90.
Put that in there as well, cool, and if we
wanna make sure we have the right kind of
left-to-right rotation style, just like we
saw before, we can put that all together.
We do need to do the next costume thing,
although it looks like he floats
through reality, which is fine.
So we're just grabbing looks for
next costume, we'll do that after we walk.
There he is, he is running around,
so you do by testing color.
The other thing you could choose to do,
I guess we should only do the next
costume if he actually moves, get off
Do that in both cases here,
that way he doesn't, so
you can do it by color.
The other thing we could do is, you'll see
a lot of times, this is just actually do
sprite collisions,
we saw that before with the enemies.
And so
what we might choose to do is just create
a sprite that we call ground, backdrops,
I'll just select all here, copy, paste.
So the only issue with this is that you
couldn't do the fall to a given amount
right but the nice part if you choose
to go through the touching a different
sprite we go through.
Is that you can have it in front and
so the apples look like they
kind of vanished into nothing.
You can do the color of the sprite as
well, are you gonna have a touching
Sprite, these are all different options
depending on the different mechanic.
I like this effect a lot,
the color is still gonna work because the
backdrop is yellow, the sprite was yellow.
I don't even need to worry
about the sprite collision but
now I like the idea that it's
all the way in the front and
the apples look like
they're falling behind it.
So I like the visual effect in this case
as well and can walk right and left.
So we can't collect any of our apples yet
though, which is kind of a bummer.
So we should fix that.